.TH mcperf 1 "17 March 2022"
.SH NAME mcperf \- Measure speed of performing cryptographic hash of the dictionary
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcperf [ \-h ] [ \-c
.I <#>
] [ \-l 
.I <language>
] [ \-n ] [ \-s
.I <hashprogram>
] [ \-w
.I <#>
] 
.I
<nicenumber>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mcperf
performs a <nicenumber> set of iterations of the selected hashprogram
on the local dictionary.  This will report data about the machine
under test, the size of the dictionary, the effective iterations and
the MB/Sec at which the hashprogram process the input to generate a
hash number.

.I <nicenumber>
specifies the number of effective iterations.  If the number of copies
is greater than one, then actual iteration count is divided by the 
number of copies.  E.G., if you specify 5Kib iterations (5120) and 
the number of concatenated copies is 512, then the actual iteration
count will be 10.

The format of the nice number is a set of digits followed by a nice
number suffix (E.G., MB for megabytes and MiB for mebibytes).
.br
1MB (MegaBytes) 1,000,000
.br
1MiB (Mebibytes) 1,048,576
.br
1PiB (Pebibytes) 1,125,899,906,843,624

For a complete table of nice suffixes and values:

mcpperf -v -h
.SS Options
.TP
.B \-h
Print the help message
.TP
.B \-c
.I <#>
an integer to reflect the number of copies of the dictionary file to
be concatenated together to reduce the number of times the hash
program is launched to process a quantity of data.
.TP
.B \-l
.I <language>
the name of an alternate dictionary
.TP
.B \-n
Send the program (hash or dd) output to /dev/null
.TP
.B \-r
.I <dir>
the directory where results will be placed.
.TP
.B \-s
.I <hashprogram>
specify which cryptographic hash program to use. Valid values:
b2sum; sha1sum; sha256sum; sha512sum.
.br
or the special case "dd" which helps measure the file
operations (open, read, write) without the cryptographic processing.
.TP
.B \-t
.I <#>
an integer representing the percentage of /tmp that can be used
for making concatenated copies of the dictionary.  If the dictionary
copies will condume more space than is available in /tmp (e.g. /tmp
is mounted in RAM as tmpfs), consider moving /tmp to "/" (root file
system)
.TP
.B \-v
turn on verbose mode, currently only applies to \-h
.TP
.B \-w
.I <#>
the divisor used to provid a "wait" (sleep) time for copying the
dictionary to /tmp to complete.
When making (e.g. 512) copies of a dictionary
that is ~1MB in size, it takes time for that operation to complete
so that it does not interfere with timing the program under test.  On
a Raspberry PI 4 it appears that it takes a divisor value of
between 8 and 20 to allow the copy process to complete (flushing the 
write behind buffers to disk.  Your mileage may vary so perform your
own testing.
.SH FILES
/usr/share/dict/american-english
.br
/tmp/american-english_1
.br
/tmp/american-english_512
.br
<dir>/hostname.hashname.csv
.br

.BR E.G.,
.RS
~/github/sysperf/results/pi04-04-02.b2sum.csv
.RE
will contain a descriptive header line and result values separated by
the "|" character.  One set of iteration results per row.
.br

.BR E.G.,
.RS
~/github/sysperf/results/DB_pi04-04-02.b2sum.csv
.RE
will contain a descriptive header line and a subset of result values
separated by the "|" character.  Information about the machine under
test is elided from the data.
.br

.BR E.G.,
.RS
~/github/sysperf/results/pi04-04-02_description.txt
.RE
will contain a descriptive header line and a set of values which
describe the machine (in this example, 
.I pi04-04-02
) that describe the host.
.br

.BR  E.G.,
(note that the header line and date line shown below are
normally on a single line
but are broken up here for clarity of display)
.br

Hostname|Architecture|cores|CPU max MHz|MEM Total|
.br
MEM Used|MEM Free|SWAP Total|S WAP Used|SWAP Free|
.br
OS|OS_VERSION_ID|Bogomips
.br

pi04-04-02|aarch64|4|1500.0000|3.7Gi|
.br
1.6Gi|492Mi|3.3Gi|533Mi|2.8Gi|
.br
ubuntu|"21.10 "|108.00
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dd (1),
.BR b2sum (1),
.BR sha1sum (1),
.BR sha256sum (1),
.BR sha512sum (1),
.BR onewrapper (1),
.BR allwrapper (1)
.SH NOTES
Unless performing unit testing, this is rarely invoked as a standalone
program.  Most often it is invoded by
.BR onewrapper (1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.SH AUTHOR
Robert E. Novak
.SH BUGS

